README.md, before:

# JavApi⁴Swift

[![](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https%3A%2F%2Fswiftpackageindex.com%2Fapi%2Fpackages%2Fbastie%2FJavApi4Swift%2Fbadge%3Ftype%3Dswift-versions)](https://swiftpackageindex.com/bastie/JavApi4Swift)
[![](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https%3A%2F%2Fswiftpackageindex.com%2Fapi%2Fpackages%2Fbastie%2FJavApi4Swift%2Fbadge%3Ftype%3Dplatforms)](https://swiftpackageindex.com/bastie/JavApi4Swift)

This project provides a Java like API in 100%-pure Swift instead bridging to Java virtual machine. In result you do not need a Java virtual machine. On the otherside you can port Java code to Swift without Big-Bang step by step.

## Usage

When working with XCode add dependency

    https://github.com/bastie/JavApi4Swift.git
    
When working with SwiftPM add dependency

    .package(url: "https://github.com/bastie/JavApi4Swift.git", from: "0.3.1")

or

    .Package(url: "https://github.com/bastie/JavApi4Swift.git", .upToNextMajor(from: "0.3.1"))
    

## Development

### include other projects

To honor the work of the developer of other project let the history come inside.

To include other project with compatible license do

    # Example for some types from a jzlib clone
    #
    # clone the other project local, jzlib clone are here https://github.com/kohsuke/jzlib.git
     
    git clone https://github.com/kohsuke/jzlib.git otherProject
    
    # go into project directory and remove the origin
    cd otherProject
    git remote rm origin
    
    # filter project to remove all unwanted data and commit it
    git filter-branch --subdirectory-filter src/main/java/com/jcraft/jzlib -- --all
    git rm Deflat*.java GZIP*.java Inf*.java Z*.java Tree.java StaticTree.java JZl*.java
    git commit -m "ready to import"
    
    # go to JavApi project directory
    cd ../JavApi4Swift
    
    # add (temporary) the local other project as remote source and pull wanted data with history
    git remote add importSource ../otherProject
    git pull importSource master --no-rebase --allow-unrelated-histories
    git remote rm importSource
    
    # work on conflicts f.e. in .gitignore
    
    # optional take a look into history
    git log
    

### JavApi style guide

1. The ported Java source code should not to modify more than needed. 
1. I like short lines and so indent is 2 spaces. 
1. Types are in same name files like Java with the exception of java.lang types.
1. The opend curly braces are in the same line.
1. _packages_ are mapped over enums in files named as java.basepackagename.packagename.swift in result of compiler problems with more than one identical files names. 
1. Exported parameters of Java translated, non-private function parameter are marked with underline.
1. Exceptions are mapped over extension of Error enumeration.
1. Default methods are in extensions implemented.
1. Swiftify code are implemented in extensions.
1. All previous points are non-binding recommendations with no binding effect.


### How to translate Java source code to Swift

#### abstract classes

Abstract classes are implemented as interface with default methods.

#### arrays

The Java length property of an array is mapped over a readonly computed Swift property with result of Swift count property.

#### assert

Instead of `assert` use the `guard` with function `fatalError`.

#### blocks of statements

In Java blocks are between curly braces {}. Swift need the `do` keyword before the open brace.

#### byte type

Swift use `UInt8` instead `byte` but typealias are exported.

#### char

Not often but here Swift need explicite declaration and double quotes, for example

    let chars : [Character] : "a string to char array".toCharArray()
    let char : Character = "c"

#### exception handling

In Java exception can seperated in "RuntimeException" without explicit naming and "the other exception". The other exception must be declared and catched. RuntimeException and the super type Throwable can be declared and catched - or use `public static void main [] throws Throwable {}`. Java use a *try block* with *catch NamedException* instead to Swift with "normal" *do block* with *catch*. Swift also provide the *error* enum inside the catch block, Java has the NamedException instance.

How translation is relized by example:

    // Java
    try {
      // do something throwable
    }
    catch (NullPointerException npe) {}
    catch (Exception e) {}
    catch (Throwable t) {}
    
    /// Swift
    do {
      // do something throwable
    }
    catch {
      switch error {
        case Throwable.NullPointerException: do {}
        case Throwable.Exception : do {}
        default : do {}
      }
    }
}

#### final

First let `let` the replacement be for `final`. For functions / method parameters the semantic of Java and Swift are "different". In Java you can be declare a parameter as not changeable with `final`. In Swift you can be declare as parameter as mutable with `var` keyword, but not the `_` underline. 

#### interface

Java interfaces are mapped with Swift protocols. With created package like structure (see package section) a typealias is declerated in this enum with reference of protocol implementation outside the enum. In the protocol implementation a associatedtype is declerated to the typealias name in the structure. This is f.e. needed to declerated function the result type of interface. Default methods need to declerated in a extendsion of protocol like normal Swift protocols.

For example:

    extension myrootpackage.mysubpackage {
      public typealias JavaInterfaceName = JavApi.JavaInterfaceName
    }

    public protocol JavaInterfaceName {
      associatedtype JavaInterfaceName: myrootpackage.mysubpackage.JavaInterfaceName
      
      func toDo (_ with : Int) -> myrootpackage.mysubpackage.JavaInterfaceName
    }

    extension JavaInterfaceName {
      func toDo (_ with : Int) -> myrootpackage.mysubpackage.JavaInterfaceName {
        return self
      }
    }
    
#### java.lang types

All types in package java.lang doesn't need to import in Java. One solution is to set the full package name before. In result of Java-Swift name overlap it seems better to implement these types outside the java.lang enum structure (see package section).

Also if default Swing type exists it is extended instead Java implementation is ported, see String type as example.

#### keyword masking

The best way is to rename variables and types in Java before collision with Swift keywords. But you can also variable names mask with backtick like:

   let ``in`` : Int 

#### Map

Java Map is similar to dictionary type in Swift

    java.util.Map<String, Double> variable;    to    var variable : [String: Double]

#### method

Java methods in classes can be mapped as function of struct or classes. Java method define

    visible returnType name (parameterType parameterName = defaultParameterValue, ...) throws namedException {}
    
Swift mapping is

    visible name (_ parameterName : parameterType = defaultParameterValue, ...) throws {}
    
Swift prefered named parameter call of function instead of Java nameless function call. The underline adress this, but you need to add extra code in Swift (version 5.9) if parameterType is modifyable. In Swift you add a var modifier to parameter, but it doesn't work with underline. The target to make call of **public** functions do not make different, the var keyword need to be manual converted.

For example normal Swift code:

    public func toDo (var with : Int) -> Int64 {
      if with < 5 {
        with = 5
      }
      return Int64 (with)
    }  
    
For example to translate Java code:

    public long toDo (int with) {
      if (with < 5) {
        with = 5;
      }
      return with;
    }

For example Swift translated Java code:

    public func toDo (_ _with : Int) -> Int64 {
      var with = _with
       
      if with < 5 {
        with = 5
      }
      return Int64(with)
    }

I assume there is more than one call to a function, so the call is the same for a single line change/add. The other solution is to set the parameter with (var with : Int). Then all calls must be changed, including calls from other developers. Therefore, the underline solution is preferred. 

The translation has a Optional problem because Java reference types are implicite nullable instead of Swift with explicite nilable. In result it exists not the only one way. Take a closer look to the method implementation and the documentation (for black box reimplementation). One way is to declerated some methods with (all) optional and non-optional variants of method. See System.arraycopy as example in the source files.  

##### default methods

Default methods are implemented in a extension, because the mapping of Java interfaces in a Java package like structures need a bit more code. 

#### do while loop

Instead of `do` use keyword `repeat`.

#### operator >>>

The operator >>> is implemented. Composite operator like >>>= need to separated

#### operators

In Swing not exists Java operators are implemented in java.lang

Composite operators must be separated before they can be used. Also operator statements in loops must be separated. The spaced must be placed. Unknown operators need to be translated. Assignment with = operator need to be separated.

Examples:

    i++            translated to    i += 1   /// unknown operator
    i--            translated to    i -= 1   /// unknown operator
    i+=1           translated to    i += 1   /// spaces placed, same for other operators
    int i, j = 1   translated to    var i = 1; var j = 1;   /// separation of assignment operator
    int i, j = 1   translated to    var i : Int = 1; var j : Int = 1;   /// alternative solution

In loops operator position are relevant. The operator before the variable name tells first do the operator statement and than test. The operator after the variable name tells test first and then do the operator statement.

For example:

    while (++i < 5) {}   translated to   i += 1; while (i < 5) {i += 1}       /// 1234
    while (i++ < 5) {}   translated to   i += 1; while (i < 5 + 1) {i += 1}   /// 12345
    while (--i > 0) {}   translated to   i -= 1; while (i > 5) {i -= 1}       /// 4321
    while (i-- > 0) {}   translated to   i -= 1; while (i > 5 + 1) {i -= 1}   /// 43210

Of course this are the easiest variants.

#### package

Java packages can be mapped as enum hierachy. Take a look to the CryptoKit, for example MD5 is placed in the enum Insecure and must called with Insecure.MD5
Too add a new _package_ create an enum with same name. Subpackages can be add directly in the enum or maybe better as extension of these enum.

#### shortcuts

Java shortcuts for types need to be translated like

    1d    to    1.0         // double shortcut
    1l    to    Int64(1)    // long shortcut

#### String.format

Replace `String.format` with Swift placeholders like from

    String.format("Text %d, more text %s", intValue, stringValue)
    
to

    "Text \(intValue), more text \(stringValue)"

#### Swiftify

Swiftify is a JavApi extension. It make additional implementations of Java methods with syntax more like Swift code. It can also implements additional Swift type to use the Java ported code like Swift in other real Swift code.

## thanks

* (JZLib implementation)[https://github.com/kohsuke/jzlib] and (JZLib implementation)[https://github.com/ymnk/jzlib]
* (AnyDate implementation)[https://github.com/kawoou/AnyDate]



## License

This project use only business friendly **permissive licenses**.

<p><figure>
<a title="David A. Wheeler, et al., CC BY-SA 3.0 &lt;https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0&gt;, via Wikimedia Commons" href="https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Floss-license-slide-image.svg"><img width="1024" alt="Floss-license-slide-image" src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/2/2b/Floss-license-slide-image.svg/512px-Floss-license-slide-image.svg.png"></a>
<figcaption style="text-align: right;display: inline-block">Image: David A. Wheeler, et al., CC BY-SA 3.0 <https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0>, via Wikimedia Commons</figcaption>
</figure></p>



By default the MIT License is used.

Parts of source code use the 3-Clause BSD License.

Commit message:

change visibility to open for non-final types

README.md, after:

# JavApi⁴Swift

[![](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https%3A%2F%2Fswiftpackageindex.com%2Fapi%2Fpackages%2Fbastie%2FJavApi4Swift%2Fbadge%3Ftype%3Dswift-versions)](https://swiftpackageindex.com/bastie/JavApi4Swift)
[![](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https%3A%2F%2Fswiftpackageindex.com%2Fapi%2Fpackages%2Fbastie%2FJavApi4Swift%2Fbadge%3Ftype%3Dplatforms)](https://swiftpackageindex.com/bastie/JavApi4Swift)

This project provides a Java like API in 100%-pure Swift instead bridging to Java virtual machine. In result you do not need a Java virtual machine. On the otherside you can port Java code to Swift without Big-Bang step by step.

## Usage

When working with XCode add dependency

    https://github.com/bastie/JavApi4Swift.git
    
When working with SwiftPM add dependency

    .package(url: "https://github.com/bastie/JavApi4Swift.git", from: "0.3.1")

or

    .Package(url: "https://github.com/bastie/JavApi4Swift.git", .upToNextMajor(from: "0.3.1"))
    

## Development

### include other projects

To honor the work of the developer of other project let the history come inside.

To include other project with compatible license do

    # Example for some types from a jzlib clone
    #
    # clone the other project local, jzlib clone are here https://github.com/kohsuke/jzlib.git
     
    git clone https://github.com/kohsuke/jzlib.git otherProject
    
    # go into project directory and remove the origin
    cd otherProject
    git remote rm origin
    
    # filter project to remove all unwanted data and commit it
    git filter-branch --subdirectory-filter src/main/java/com/jcraft/jzlib -- --all
    git rm Deflat*.java GZIP*.java Inf*.java Z*.java Tree.java StaticTree.java JZl*.java
    git commit -m "ready to import"
    
    # go to JavApi project directory
    cd ../JavApi4Swift
    
    # add (temporary) the local other project as remote source and pull wanted data with history
    git remote add importSource ../otherProject
    git pull importSource master --no-rebase --allow-unrelated-histories
    git remote rm importSource
    
    # work on conflicts f.e. in .gitignore
    
    # optional take a look into history
    git log
    

### JavApi style guide

1. The ported Java source code should not to modify more than needed. 
1. I like short lines and so indent is 2 spaces. 
1. Types are in same name files like Java with the exception of java.lang types.
1. The opend curly braces are in the same line.
1. _packages_ are mapped over enums in files named as java.basepackagename.packagename.swift in result of compiler problems with more than one identical files names. 
1. Exported parameters of Java translated, non-private function parameter are marked with underline.
1. Exceptions are mapped over extension of Error enumeration.
1. Default methods are in extensions implemented.
1. Swiftify code are implemented in extensions.
1. All previous points are non-binding recommendations with no binding effect.


### How to translate Java source code to Swift

#### abstract classes

Abstract classes are implemented as interface with default methods.

#### arrays

The Java length property of an array is mapped over a readonly computed Swift property with result of Swift count property.

#### assert

Instead of `assert` use the `guard` with function `fatalError`.

#### blocks of statements

In Java blocks are between curly braces {}. Swift need the `do` keyword before the open brace.

#### byte type

Swift use `UInt8` instead `byte` but typealias are exported.

#### char

Not often but here Swift need explicite declaration and double quotes, for example

    let chars : [Character] : "a string to char array".toCharArray()
    let char : Character = "c"

#### exception handling

In Java exception can seperated in "RuntimeException" without explicit naming and "the other exception". The other exception must be declared and catched. RuntimeException and the super type Throwable can be declared and catched - or use `public static void main [] throws Throwable {}`. Java use a *try block* with *catch NamedException* instead to Swift with "normal" *do block* with *catch*. Swift also provide the *error* enum inside the catch block, Java has the NamedException instance.

How translation is relized by example:

    // Java
    try {
      // do something throwable
    }
    catch (NullPointerException npe) {}
    catch (Exception e) {}
    catch (Throwable t) {}
    
    /// Swift
    do {
      // do something throwable
    }
    catch {
      switch error {
        case Throwable.NullPointerException: do {}
        case Throwable.Exception : do {}
        default : do {}
      }
    }
}

#### final

First let `let` the replacement be for `final`. For functions / method parameters the semantic of Java and Swift are "different". In Java you can be declare a parameter as not changeable with `final`. In Swift you can be declare as parameter as mutable with `var` keyword, but not the `_` underline. 

#### interface

Java interfaces are mapped with Swift protocols. With created package like structure (see package section) a typealias is declerated in this enum with reference of protocol implementation outside the enum. In the protocol implementation a associatedtype is declerated to the typealias name in the structure. This is f.e. needed to declerated function the result type of interface. Default methods need to declerated in a extendsion of protocol like normal Swift protocols.

For example:

    extension myrootpackage.mysubpackage {
      public typealias JavaInterfaceName = JavApi.JavaInterfaceName
    }

    public protocol JavaInterfaceName {
      associatedtype JavaInterfaceName: myrootpackage.mysubpackage.JavaInterfaceName
      
      func toDo (_ with : Int) -> myrootpackage.mysubpackage.JavaInterfaceName
    }

    extension JavaInterfaceName {
      func toDo (_ with : Int) -> myrootpackage.mysubpackage.JavaInterfaceName {
        return self
      }
    }
    
#### java.lang types

All types in package java.lang doesn't need to import in Java. One solution is to set the full package name before. In result of Java-Swift name overlap it seems better to implement these types outside the java.lang enum structure (see package section).

Also if default Swing type exists it is extended instead Java implementation is ported, see String type as example.

#### keyword masking

The best way is to rename variables and types in Java before collision with Swift keywords. But you can also variable names mask with backtick like:

   let ``in`` : Int 

#### Map

Java Map is similar to dictionary type in Swift

    java.util.Map<String, Double> variable;    to    var variable : [String: Double]

#### method

Java methods in classes can be mapped as function of struct or classes. Java method define

    visible returnType name (parameterType parameterName = defaultParameterValue, ...) throws namedException {}
    
Swift mapping is

    visible name (_ parameterName : parameterType = defaultParameterValue, ...) throws {}
    
Swift prefered named parameter call of function instead of Java nameless function call. The underline adress this, but you need to add extra code in Swift (version 5.9) if parameterType is modifyable. In Swift you add a var modifier to parameter, but it doesn't work with underline. The target to make call of **public** functions do not make different, the var keyword need to be manual converted.

For example normal Swift code:

    public func toDo (var with : Int) -> Int64 {
      if with < 5 {
        with = 5
      }
      return Int64 (with)
    }  
    
For example to translate Java code:

    public long toDo (int with) {
      if (with < 5) {
        with = 5;
      }
      return with;
    }

For example Swift translated Java code:

    public func toDo (_ _with : Int) -> Int64 {
      var with = _with
       
      if with < 5 {
        with = 5
      }
      return Int64(with)
    }

I assume there is more than one call to a function, so the call is the same for a single line change/add. The other solution is to set the parameter with (var with : Int). Then all calls must be changed, including calls from other developers. Therefore, the underline solution is preferred. 

The translation has a Optional problem because Java reference types are implicite nullable instead of Swift with explicite nilable. In result it exists not the only one way. Take a closer look to the method implementation and the documentation (for black box reimplementation). One way is to declerated some methods with (all) optional and non-optional variants of method. See System.arraycopy as example in the source files.  

##### default methods

Default methods are implemented in a extension, because the mapping of Java interfaces in a Java package like structures need a bit more code. 

#### do while loop

Instead of `do` use keyword `repeat`.

#### operator >>>

The operator >>> is implemented. Composite operator like >>>= need to separated

#### operators

In Swing not exists Java operators are implemented in java.lang

Composite operators must be separated before they can be used. Also operator statements in loops must be separated. The spaced must be placed. Unknown operators need to be translated. Assignment with = operator need to be separated.

Examples:

    i++            translated to    i += 1   /// unknown operator
    i--            translated to    i -= 1   /// unknown operator
    i+=1           translated to    i += 1   /// spaces placed, same for other operators
    int i, j = 1   translated to    var i = 1; var j = 1;   /// separation of assignment operator
    int i, j = 1   translated to    var i : Int = 1; var j : Int = 1;   /// alternative solution

In loops operator position are relevant. The operator before the variable name tells first do the operator statement and than test. The operator after the variable name tells test first and then do the operator statement.

For example:

    while (++i < 5) {}   translated to   i += 1; while (i < 5) {i += 1}       /// 1234
    while (i++ < 5) {}   translated to   i += 1; while (i < 5 + 1) {i += 1}   /// 12345
    while (--i > 0) {}   translated to   i -= 1; while (i > 5) {i -= 1}       /// 4321
    while (i-- > 0) {}   translated to   i -= 1; while (i > 5 + 1) {i -= 1}   /// 43210

Of course this are the easiest variants.

#### package

Java packages can be mapped as enum hierachy. Take a look to the CryptoKit, for example MD5 is placed in the enum Insecure and must called with Insecure.MD5
Too add a new _package_ create an enum with same name. Subpackages can be add directly in the enum or maybe better as extension of these enum.

#### shortcuts

Java shortcuts for types need to be translated like

    1d    to    1.0         // double shortcut
    1l    to    Int64(1)    // long shortcut

#### String.format

Replace `String.format` with Swift placeholders like from

    String.format("Text %d, more text %s", intValue, stringValue)
    
to

    "Text \(intValue), more text \(stringValue)"

#### Swiftify

Swiftify is a JavApi extension. It make additional implementations of Java methods with syntax more like Swift code. It can also implements additional Swift type to use the Java ported code like Swift in other real Swift code.

#### visibility

Swift visiblilities are:

1. private: like Java - symbol visible within the current declaration only. 
2. fileprivate: symbol visible within the current file.
3. internal: like .net - symbol visible within the current module or default access modifier.
4. public: not identical with Java - symbol visible outside the current module.
5. open: like public in Java - for class or function to be subclassed or overridden outside the current module.

In result of these Java ported classes and structs are by default `open` except they are final then `public`.

## thanks

* (JZLib implementation)[https://github.com/kohsuke/jzlib] and (JZLib implementation)[https://github.com/ymnk/jzlib]
* (AnyDate implementation)[https://github.com/kawoou/AnyDate]



## License

This project use only business friendly **permissive licenses**.

<p><figure>
<a title="David A. Wheeler, et al., CC BY-SA 3.0 &lt;https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0&gt;, via Wikimedia Commons" href="https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Floss-license-slide-image.svg"><img width="1024" alt="Floss-license-slide-image" src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/2/2b/Floss-license-slide-image.svg/512px-Floss-license-slide-image.svg.png"></a>
<figcaption style="text-align: right;display: inline-block">Image: David A. Wheeler, et al., CC BY-SA 3.0 <https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0>, via Wikimedia Commons</figcaption>
</figure></p>



By default the MIT License is used.

Parts of source code use the 3-Clause BSD License.
